The University of Missouri–St. Louis (UMSL) is public research university located in St. Louis, Missouri, United States. Established in 1963, it is one of four universities in the University of Missouri System and its newest. UMSL's campus is located on the former grounds of the Bellerive Country Club in St. Louis County, in the U.S. state of Missouri, stretching into the municipalities of Bellerive,[9] Bel-Nor[10] and Normandy.[11] Additional facilities are located at the former site of Marillac College and at Grand Center, both in St. Louis city.

Bachelor's, Master's, and doctoral programs are offered through the College of Arts and Sciences, the College of Business Administration, the College of Education, the College of Nursing, the School of Social Work, and the College of Optometry. The business school is AACSB-accredited and is the only university in the St. Louis area to also be AACSB-accredited in accounting. Preprofessional, a joint engineering program with Washington University in St. Louis, and evening programs are also offered. UMSL is home of an optometry school, providing its students with a doctorate (OD). Only 17 optometry schools exist in all of North America including Puerto Rico. The Pierre Laclede Honors College is UMSL's honors program.

The university contains two libraries: The Thomas Jefferson Library which is the main library of the university and the St. Louis Mercantile Library which was founded in 1846 and is the oldest library west of the Mississippi River. The campus contains two stops on MetroLink, St. Louis' regional light rail system. A student center, academic buildings, parking structures, a performing arts center, and residential housing have been constructed over the past ten years as part of campus improvement programs. The university has a dual-enrollment agreement with Gulf University for Science and Technology, Kuwait. St. Louis Public Radio (90.7 FM), which is the flagship National Public Radio station in St. Louis, Missouri and known on-air as St. Louis Public Radio, is owned by and licensed to UMSL.

71.6% of its undergraduate classes have 29 or fewer students, and 46.2% have 19 or fewer students. The student-faculty ratio is 16:1